So we'll save that.
And now we need to add that
script component to the player.
So we'll go to the player here.
I'll scroll down to Add Component,
and we'll add this score script.
And right now that's not
going to do anything.
It's not gonna change the functionality
of the game in any way.
But it's something that we'll need later.
So let's keep moving.
Collectibles, we created that tiny sphere
that is going to be our collectible,
but now we need to actually collect it and
then move it around
when it gets collected.
So how are we gonna do that?
Well, when another game
object with a score component
basically intersects with
a collectible component,
it's going to call increment score method.
So when the player or
the opponent runs over that trigger
collider that we created
earlier on the collectible,
it's going to talk to the score
component on the player or
the opponent and call that increment
score method to increase it by 1.
And then after it does that, so
that's this line right here where it says
other.gameobject.get component,
score, increment score.
After that, we need to move the position
of the collectible to a new
location on the game board so
there's a new place to chase it.
And that's what this code is doing here.
So we'll type all of this up in
a second and look at it in more detail.
But one thing I wanted to call out,
and this could be a way that
maybe you could improve upon
this game after completing it.
Is that admittedly spawning
the collectible to a new random position
on the board will sometimes result
in spawns that might just be
directly next to one of the players.
Or in a spot that is maybe,
say, right next
to where the collectible was previously.
So it'll still be on the game board
because we're kind of bounding
that to a range within the board,
but putting it in just any
random spot on the board is not
necessarily the best approach.
I mean, over the time span of a minute
in a game where there's two players
moving around, generally kind of evens
out from a game play perspective.
So it's not a huge deal here.
But one approach to improve this,
and maybe production ready game,
is to have several predefined spawn points
that would be transforms on the board.
And then look at those in a list, and
always choose the spawn point that's
furthest away from all of the parties
that are playing the game, right?
So that's one approach.
You could also just have predefined
spawn positions that you pick randomly.
You could just look at
the position of the players and
actually calculate a distance that's
always a fixed value from all of them.
A lot of ways to do that, but we're just
gonna pick a random spot, it's fine.
So let's go over to Unity and
let's create the script.
So in our scripts folder, I'm going
to again create a new C Sharp script.
And we're gonna call this collectible.
And I will open that up in our editor,
And don't need these
namespaces at the top.
We don't need the update method, but
we are going to use the start method here.
So first, I'm going to create a private
float value called range and
set it to 0.4 as a float.
So the range is going to be the x and
z range, positive and
negative, in which this
collectible can spawn.
Now, why is 0.4?
Well, the game board,
if you recall, is a cube in Unity.
And the cube has a size
of one meter cubed.
And if we're spawning in the positive and
negative x,
and the positive and negative z,
then we actually want that to
be something like, say 0.5.
That's the size of the game board.
We don't want this collectible to spawn at
the very edge of the game board though.
So we wanna set it to 0.4, so
that it's just constrained
a little bit to the board.
So that's where that magical
0.4 number is coming from.
So then I'll create a Vector
3 called start position.
And that's going to be where
the collectible is starting.
And we wanna record that for
when we reset the game.
So when you hit the space bar and reset
the game, we want that original position.
So we'll record the starting position
by recording the transform position.
So this is very similar to what we
did in the rolling movement script.
And then we want another method
that has a return type of void.
And this method is going
to be called onTriggerStay,
and it's going to take
an argument of a collider.
And we'll just call that collider other.
OnTriggerStay is a method
on the mono behavior class,
and it's part of every
game object in Unity.
And onTriggerStay is used to
detect when a trigger collider
is staying inside of this
game object's collider.
So this is the method that's
detecting physics collisions.
I should point out that there's
also onTriggerEnter as a method,
and there's OnTriggerExit.
We're not gonna use those,
but onTriggerEnter and
onTriggerExit allow you to detect when
a collider has entered a trigger collider,
when it first hit it, and
it will trigger once.
And it also detects when a collider
exits a trigger collider.
So why are we using onTriggerStay, right?
Why don't we say onTriggerEnter so
that when it first hits the collectible,
it gets collected and that's it?
Well, it's because of how we're
spawning these randomly, right?
We're spawning these, they could
spawn anywhere on the game board.
And it could potentially spawn inside
of one of the other players, in which
case we want it to just get collected
immediately and spawn somewhere else.
Not really fair in terms of the game,
but for
simplicity that's how we're gonna do it.
So onTriggerStay will avoid kind
of just weird scenarios where it
spawns inside of a player but
doesn't actually get collected.
So, inside of this method we
want to do a couple of things.
I'll write out a comment.
So if the other game object has
a score component, increment it.
So there's this argument here,
collider other.
Other is the collider or
the base class for
colliders, and that's box collider,
sphere colliders, and
that's in Unity this thing.
So on a player there's this
sphere collider, right?
That is actually inheriting from
a parent class called collider.
And so when onTriggerStay
gets triggered by in this
case one of the players in the game,
that other collider is going to
be the player or the opponent.
That's the other, that's the thing
that's colliding with the collectible.
So we want to get other game object.
We wanna get its game object
because we want to look for
components on that game object.
And we're going to call get component and
we're looking for
the score component, okay?
And then we can continue
just chaining these methods.
So once we have the score component,
we want to call that
increment score method that we
wrote in the score component.
So when a player hits the collectible,
it will look for
this other thing that's hitting it,
the player.
It's gonna find its game object.
It's gonna look through its components,
it's gonna find the score component.
And then on the score components
it's calling increment score.
So that all happens in one line.
Then after that's happened,
we wanna move the position
of this collectible to a new random
position within the board bounce.
So we already set what
that range should be, but
we wanna move the transform position
of this game object to a new Vector 3,
we're moving it to a new 3D position.
And we're going to use a function
that will generate a random number.
So we're gonna call random,
which is a class, and
we want to call random.range,
not random.random range,
which is a deprecated method.
So, random.range, okay?
And we want that random range
to be the negative range
that we set and
the positive range that we set.
So that's going to create an x value for
this Vector 3 that is somewhere between
negative 0.4 and positive 0.4, okay?
So what about the y position?
So I typed a comma there and
I went on to the next line here.
Where should we put the y?
Well, we already have
the starting position.
We could put it there, but the y position
of this is never really going to move.
So we can just call transform.position.y,
and just use the one that we already have.
It's the same thing really because,
again, that y isn't going to move.
So finally, for
the z position, same thing.
I'm just gonna copy and
paste what we have in x and
put it there in the z,
because we want that same random range of
-0.4 to + 0.4 but in the z space.
So there's one more
method we need to write.
We need to be able to reset the position
of the collectible whenever we might need
to, such as when the game restarts.
So I'll create another method
here with a return type of void,
because this is going to be public.
Because this is going to
need be called when we have
input such as hitting
the spacebar to reset the game.
And we'll set the transform
position to the start position.
So you'll notice that this is the same
type of pattern that we used in
rolling movement.
We get the start position in start,
then we reset the position
in reset position.
And reset position by the way,
that is not a special method name that's
on mono behavior or anything like that,
that's just what we call, but
that method could be called anything.
So there is the collectible script.
I'm gonna save that, and
we need to apply it to the collectible.
So I'm gonna switch back to Unity.
And on the collectible theme object,
I'm gonna hit Add Component and
I'll type in collectible.
And it will add that script.
There's not really anything on that
script that we need to modify.
So we can just leave that as is.
And now when we hit the play button and
we roll around, we should be able to
collect this and the collectible
should spawn to a new random position.
And theoretically on the player component
this is incrementing the score value,
but we don't have any way to see that yet.
That's where UI is gonna come in and
allow us to actually see what's going on.
But that's what the game
should look like right now.
One thing I did not mention earlier that
is really cool about working in Unity,
is that you can modify inspector
values while the game is running.
So on the player game object,
you'll recall that we do
have this speed value that
we can adjust in the rolling
movement component.
If I set that to something like 0,
sorry, if I set that something like 2,
instead of 1,
the player will move twice as fast.
If I set that to something like 0.1,
the player is going to move
really slowly because it's
multiplying by that movement factor.
But you'll notice at no point
did I stop playing the game and
I was able to just modify that value.
Something that's really important about
serialized values in the inspector when
you're modifying them,
is that they will not be saved when
you come out of play mode, okay?
I'm gonna say that one more
time cuz it's so important.
So I modified this value,
originally it was 1.
I can change it to anything else like 2
and make the player move really quickly.
But if I hit the play button again,
it's going to lose that value.
It's gonna go back to the default.
So if I hit play again,
you'll see that that speed value is now 1.
So that's very important
when you're tuning the game.
If there's values that
you wanna change and
you're kind of experimenting with
things while the game is running,
you wanna make sure that
you're writing that down.
Or copying and pasting those numbers,
or something like that, and saving them.
There are a lot more advanced and
sophisticated workflows and
architectures that you
can work within Unity.
One of them is called scriptable objects,
where you can save assets on disk and
that kind of like play mode thing
where it resets values doesn't happen.
But that is kind of
beyond the scope of this.
Generally speaking,
when you're changing inspector values,
they're going to go back to the defaults
when you come out of play mode.